Now APB 6 access lists are similar to IP version for access lists.
Here are some examples both can match on the source IP address or destination IP address in the protocol
header IP vs 6 AC ls on IP vs 6 IP addresses IP version 4 access lists on IP version for addresses both
can match individual host addresses or subnets or prefixes.
In other words you can match an individual host in IP vs 6 and permit or deny that host or you could
permit or deny a IP version 6 subnet both IP version 4 and IP version 6 are applied in an inbound or
outbound direction on a layer 3 interface such as a routers interface or switch to the virtual interface
on a switch both IP version for an IP version 6 can match on transport layer protocol information such
as DCP or UDP source port number or destination port number.
Both can also match ICMP message types and codes.
Be careful there aren't differences between the types and codes in IP version 6 vs. IP version for both
have an implicit deny statement at the end that matches all remaining packets so a deny any any after
the end of both IP version for an IP version 6 both also support time based access lists.
Now there are some differences between IP version for an IP version 6 IP version for access lists only
match IP version 4 packets and not IP version 6 and also only match fields in IP version for headers.
We have this concept of ships in the night IP version 6 is totally independent and separate to IP vision
for so what IP version for is doing has nothing to do with IP version 6 and what IP version 6 is doing
has nothing to do with IP version for IP version 6 could be permitted but IP version for could be denied.
As an example IP version 6 access lists match on IP version 6 addresses only so it matches on source
destination IP version 6 address as well as other fields unique to an IP version 6 had a.
Yes some examples of the differences between IP version for an IP version 6 IP version 4 access lists
once again only match IP version for packets IP version 6 access lists only match IP version 6 packets
IP version for access lists identified by a name or a number but IP version 6 access lists only use
names IP version for access lists identify whether an access list is extended or standard by using either
numbers such as one to ninety nine being standard access lists or one hundred two one ninety nine being
extended access lists or they use keywords such as Standard or extended IP version 6 access lists.
Use a similar convention of Standard and extended access lists but they are only differentiated by the
use of a word rather than a number because numbers are not used in IP version 6.
IP version for access lists can match on specific values unique to IP version for such as precedence
type of service TTL and fragments where as IP version 6 access lists a match on specific values unique
to an IP version 6 header such as a flow label or a DCP Valley as well as extensions an option had a
values IP version 6 access lists have some implicit permit statements at the end of each access list
just above the implicit deny all at the end of the access list with IP version for access lists do not
have implicit permit statements.